# Data-Analyst-Portfolio
This repository contains my projects from every step of my data analyst career path, through these three courses : 

- Python for Data Analyst  from : DataCamp (2024)
- SQL for Data Analyst from : DataCamp (2024)
- Data Analyst Professional : DataRockie (2023)  
- And also my own analysis project.

Which contains ..  
   1. **Airbnb, Seattle - Overall rating score analysis :**  
 	**Description** : This project analyzes a dataset of Airbnb listings in Seattle, focusing on the relationship between specific rating components (cleanliness, accuracy, value) and overall guest satisfaction (overall rating). The investigation aims to understand if hosts in less desirable locations can potentially mitigate location drawbacks by excelling in maintainable aspects of their listings.  
	 **Conclusion** : While maintaining cleanliness, accuracy, and value are essential for Airbnb listings, these factors alone may not be enough to fully compensate for a less desirable location in terms of overall guest rating. Further exploration might consider additional factors influencing location perception and guest satisfaction.

2. **Nobel Prize Winner Analysis - DataCamp Project :**  
   	**Description** : This project is to explore, clean, manipulate, and summarize data about Nobel Prize Winner to understand more about Nobel Prize Winner in the past, such as historical winner trends.
3. **Pao Ying Chub!** :  
   	**Description** : This project is to create Pao Ying Chub game, which used pandas and random libraries. I also created a conditional statements in `if` statements to determine win/lose/draw scenarios based on user input and the computer's choice that generated by choice method from random library, used `while` loop to keep game running until the user decides to quit, and also did error handling process for misspelled user input.
4. **Hypothesis Testing with Men's and Women's soccer matches** :  
   	**Description** : This project is to testing hypothesis about the mean number of goals scored in women and men soccer matches. Through this project, I import, clean, and manipulate data for explore and understand more about this dataset, I also performed Bootstrapping for estimating sampling distribution and tested hypothesis testing by calculated t-test and p-value.
5. **OOP ATM** :  
   	**Description** : Creating OOP (Object Oriented Programming), to create a ATM class, including to their attributes and methods. Through this project, I also used `if` statements within the method, to verify user identity.
6. **Create Translate Function (En - Th)** :  
   	**Description** : When you're calling `translate_th()` function, it helps to translate all rows in the column and then creates new column named "th" in the existing DataFrame, which can help you to manipulate data more quickly.
7. **Create Translate Function (En - Th)** :  
   	**Description** : Uses KMeans clustering to classify penguin species based on body
measures. **Performs Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)** to interpret data and check for data quality, such as
missing values and outliers, using a boxplot, and **preprocessed data** by dropping rows with missing
values greater than a particular threshold and removing outliers discovered with IQR. Including
using **StandardScaler** to transform all features to a common scale in order to increase the
performance of KMeans clustering. Performs **PCA transformations** on data to minimize its dimensionality and capture the most
informative components. Uses **elbow analysis** to determine the optimal number of clusters for KMeans. Then, perform
**KMeans clustering** by using reduced-dimensionality data using the number of cluster from elbow
analysis. Lastly, assign a cluster label to each data point to facilitate the further analysis of cluster
characteristic with the penguin species labels.
   

Even though I am full with passion to learned and improved on both of hards and soft skills for Data Analyst role, I'm sure that I still have some mistakes on these project. So, if you have any suggestions, a better solution, or a different perspective. Please let me know, I'm pleased to improve.

**Thank you so much**  
**Nithita E.**

 
